Hey, if you're like us, you're asking a lot of
questions around how AI is disrupting
marketing, especially disrupting search, if
you're worried about losing traffic from search
engines, this is the episode for you. We have
an amazing expert on who's going to walk
through how you should actually be focused to
win Google search today, what you should do to
spend your marketing time and content time
outside of Google search to really grow and
scale with content, and he's going to break
down all the AI tools he's using and give you
like a template and master class framework for
how to automate a lot of your content production with AI
Today we're joined by Ross Simmons,
who is the author of 'Create Once, Distribute Forever'
And the founder of Foundation, and he is
putting on a master class on the show today.
Let's get into today's episode.
Ross, welcome to the show. There are really two
things we have to talk to you about.
You are a person who understands how to
grow companies grow audiences, get millions of eyeballs
using content, and you literally wrote the book on it.
And there's two there's two clear
subjects for us to talk about. One of them is
something we've talked about a lot on this show
And people are really starting to feel,
which is the change in nature of search engine.
How are we all going to cope with the
disruption of Google? And then I think the
other thing our listeners would love is, you
are a content creator yourself. You know how to
create incredible content, just how you are
using AI tools. I think that will be an
incredible amount of knowledge for our
listeners to get. So let's start with the
start. You know, we've talked about this a lot
on the show, Kip and I, we both built our
careers in the time of Google, which was the
most funnest time to be a marketer, because you
could do like smart things to get traffic from
Google. And we kind of talked about this, maybe
like 12-18, months ago. We really started
talking about it, November 2022, when chatgpt
was launched. But people are now feeling it. I
think now it's becoming real, which is like,
I'm losing 10% of my traffic, 20% of my traffic.
How do I even grow next year? And so
just give us your like, where are you in this
like, what's your what's your take on it, now?
we've given our take a lot. I'd love to just
get your take. How you think things are?
The state of AI in search?
Yeah, I think the current situation is pretty
straightforward. For the last few years, a lot
of brands, a lot of businesses, were able to
generate a lot of ROI on the back of SEO by
pressing publish on blog posts, press and
publish on landing pages, building a few links
and calling it a day. You do that consistently.
You understand search intent, you apply best
practices around H1s (headline 1), all of that good
stuff, and you're able to pretty much rank
content successfully, especially if you have a
high authority domain. When you look at
startups, when you look at fast, growing
companies and even successful companies who
have been around for decades, everybody is
getting a little bit nervous around the future
of the way that their website is able to
consistently generate organic traffic. For good
reason. With a lot of the latest algorithm
updates, they have intentionally been trying to
reduce the likelihood of having content show up
in the SERP that is mediocre. So the biggest
piece of advice that I give people right off of
the jump is to recognize that mediocrity and AI
generated content as it comes out of the LLMs
probably isn't going to be sufficient enough
for you to rank in the SERP, because
essentially, Google already knows those
answers, and they're using AI overviews to
respond to the queries with that type of insight
So what do we have to do as marketers?
We have to go back to fundamentals. We have to
recognize that the old way doesn't work. You
can't just press publish on mediocre pieces and
expect to rank because you have a few links.
You can try to do that. And we saw a
significant amount of people, a significant
amount of brands skyrocket. When chat GPT first came out.
Everybody was going into the programmatic SEO world.
Let's create a bunch of pages pages. Let's scale this.
Let's like, just use ChatGPT to create 1000s of pages,
and look at our traffic. It's skyrocketing.
Pro Tip folks, don't brag about when you are using AI
When you try to game the system,
don't tell people you're trying to game the system.
Real G's move in silence, like, this is
not what you do. So many people made that
mistake, and then they're like, Oh, why is my
website getting dink? Because you were dumb.
Like, you can't do that. You can't do that. You
make Google look silly. Google will make you look silly.
There was a dude, right? He went here and viral, I
bet you, he wished he didn't go viral.
And he was like, yeah, look at this.
Look what I've done. And then everyone
was like, three days later, site = toast. Gone.
You can't do that. What are you doing? So I
think where, where we're at today, like
recognizing a lot of these things, one of the
things that we've done with a lot of our partners
which have allowed them to retain and
maintain or increase their traffic amidst all
of this chaos, is like we double down on high
quality content and making sure that the like
expertise and authority, like the fundamentals
of double E's: so experience, expertise,
authority and trustworthiness come through the
content. So there's always an author page.
That author page has to be in depth. It has to be
like a real person. You can't have something
created by Ross, no name person, that doesn't
actually exist. And we've implemented those
strategies while also optimizing and improving
light content. So instead of allowing a piece
of content to decay like there's a real thing
that a lot of brands overlook, which is content debt
Over the years. Of creating content, you
build up a library, but some of that content in
the library is outdated, like a piece of
content that was great in 2016 might be
mediocre today, because the standards and the
expectations of consumers is higher and shifted
So we're encouraging brands to leverage AI
to take those pieces and make them
better faster. In a traditional sense, we would
have just threw editors and writers at it and
been able to tell them to use their
human hours like to actually just do the work.
But now, with AI, we can augment the human to optimize
these pieces to still make them excellent and
great at a faster rate. And that's been a key
function for a lot of organizations that have
been around for a long time, that we work with.
Now on the early stage companies, you're in a
ridiculous time. There's no world in
which you get--like, if you're early stage
folks, like, I'll pour one out for you, it's,
it's, it's brutal. It's absolutely brutal. So
what I believe you have to do is play a whole
different game. I think that you need to
identify like, you're like, up and coming,
keywords that you're going after, that your
competitors haven't even touched yet, that the
incumbent that you're trying to disrupt isn't
even thinking about. And you try to create
those pieces because you want to rank for those
before everybody else, so you can establish
some authority. Now here's where you also have
to think differently. You have to recognize
that Google isn't the only place in the town
like the amount of traffic, the amount of leads
coming from other sources beyond Google now, is
at an all time high. There's a more diverse
level of traffic coming to websites. So what
should you be doing? You should be thinking
about distributing your content and having your
brand show up in other places. We all know that
Google and OpenAI have a very strange but great
relationship with Reddit. So if I'm early
stage, you know what I'm probably doing. I'm
thinking about ways in which I can create
content that shows up in Reddit. We also notice
that Google is starting to index Reddit more
than any other website, like it's in the top
three most visited websites in the US. But for
some reason, marketers are still scared of Reddit
Why? Why? Like this is a massive
opportunity if you're early stage, Reddit is a
massive play. People self identify. The
only people who are subscribing to a subreddit
about marketing are marketers. The only people
subscribing to a subreddit about sneakers are
sneaker heads. The only people subscribing to a
subreddit about fantasy football are fantasy
football fans, so why not embrace the time and
energy to like go into these communities?
So what we're recommending to partners who are in
those stages where you might not have the same
level of authority in a market is to think
about LinkedIn articles. Think about creating
Reddit posts that are native to certain
subreddits and communities. Do an analysis of
the SERP for your high priority keywords, and
figure out what keywords you should be ranking
for that Reddit is ranking for, and then go out
and create that content as well on Reddit
Answer the queries that are already ranking in
Reddit for your various keywords, and then get
yourself some upvotes, because you add value to
the community, include links to your assets and
give those up votes as well. So a long story to
a short question. But essentially, there's two
components. One, strive for content excellence
with the pieces that you're creating, and make
sure that the old pieces are now great and
they're not mediocre. And then two, think about
the various ways in which Google, as well as
all the other LLMs, are actually scraping the
internet so you can influence them by showing
up in more places, like Reddit, like Quora,
like Facebook groups, even like all of these
different things you need to be considering as
new ways to get in front of your audience.
Hey guys, real quick. You know, we love
building custom GPTs on the show. We love
sharing it with all of you. Well, we wanted to
kick that up a notch. We just developed this
free guide that teaches you how to build your
own custom GPT on on ChatGPT. We've taken the
guesswork out of it. We've got templates. We've
got a step by step guide to design and
implement custom models. So you can focus on
the part that's actually fun, the part we love
actually building it. And if you want it, you
can grab a link in the description below and go
check it out now. Now back to today's show.
I got a quick follow up, Kieran first, because
the number one question I get from founders, Ross is
At this stage of the game, if I'm coming into it
how much time should I spend on
text based content for the Google search engine?
That is, like, full stop the most popular question I get,
I'd love to hear your answer to that
I'll probably steal it. Yeah.
I think, as a founder, you're gonna
have a lot of things on your plate. In an
ideal world, you can have someone do it full
time. Like ideal world, you have budget, you have scope
One person focuses on it full time, but
Hold on, still above other channels?
Is that what you're saying? No, No; that's different
I'm trying to get the mix
I'm trying to get the mix right
I would say that they're probably gonna, they're
gonna spend 50% though, on the written side.
And the reason why is because the internet is
still foundationally built on the back of
written word. It's not yet at a point where the
internet is like truly built on the back of
video. It's written content within the video,
and like the headlines, the subjects, all those
things that support it. But at the end of the
day, I would say 50% should still be rooted in
the written word, because that content should
be repurposed. It should be repackaged. And I
would say that not everyone is made for video,
not everyone is made for audio, although AI
makes it way easier now, and everybody should
be more more comfortable with those things. I
would say 50% of an individual on your team
who's driving growth and marketing in
an early stage company should be thinking about
content production, producing stories.
And it's not just Google, though, like when I'm talking
pure written so it's writing social content.
It's writing blog posts. It's going into Reddit
and writing about things in there. It's writing
your email newsletters. It's writing the drip
campaigns for lead magnets. Like 50% of written
content is still very valid.
The other 50% are you? Is it like content as well,
or doing other things? Like, do you think
people should invest in video much earlier than
they are, podcast, much earlier than they are,
like they're much harder forms of content to
there's an audience around. But do you are they
things you recommend people start earlier than
they maybe are doing?
If I'm a founder in B2B, then there's no
question that video is going to be at play, right?
Video in B2B on LinkedIn is a
channel that is taking off, and it makes sense,
LinkedIn is incentivized to recognize that if
they are able to capture people's attention,
then they have more opportunities to generate
ad revenue. So they're investing a lot of money
in creators to create content that is video
based. I'm one of those creators, like I have
LinkedIn courses and things like that, rolling
that LinkedIn pays for me to create, because
they know that there's so much value in having
people who produce that type of content. So my
recommendation to founders is get on the train.
There's a massive increase I've seen. We put
out a video the other day, and it had like
400,000 views, and it was like a video that was
30 seconds, but like that reach in the B2B
context is unheard of traditionally.
LinkedIn shorts are are getting going, they're getting
going. For sure, right? And the I think the lesson that
you're telling people is like, understand where
you're playing and what the incentives are
where you're playing. And right now, LinkedIn
incentives is to make video a bigger thing, and
so if you publish video, it's going to get
unfairly distributed. Their algorithm,
everything else is going to pump it up, and
you're likely gonna get more attention for
video than you are if you just go write a text
post. That's 100% it.
And I think what people need to think about
when they're figuring out how to make this mix,
like, I would say, 80% of all of the activities
that your marketing efforts are going into
should be things that you are pretty confident,
like, very confident, are gonna work, and then
the rest are your experimental efforts, right?
Like five years ago, three years ago, I would
have threw Reddit in the experimental bucket,
but now it's like, it's a lock. It works.
It's not as questionable anymore. But you might say
TikTok, like you might say, I'm going to engage
with Tiktok influencers to see if they can help
me scale a B2B product. That's an experiment today
So 80% should be surefire wins like
these are going to ring the cash register for you
Let's invest in these things, because we
know they're going to win. We know that if we
produce case studies, we know if we create
bottom of funnel content, comparison pages
if we create these types of assets, they're going
to drive ROI for us. Do those things, but then
a portion of your budget, a portion of your
energy, should be experiments, because what you
want to do is you want to get a win, and if you
can get an experiment that wins before your
competitors win, then you now have Content
Market Fit, Channel market fit before your
competition, so you can start to get an
advantage that they don't have, and then you
just retain that knowledge and that capacity to
drive leads through a channel that they haven't
even experimented with.
It sounds like you're saying, okay, like,
still do the Google thing, right? You still go
out, look for the keywords. Try to rank for the
keywords. Maybe do bottoms up. Look for the
ones that are most relevant. Convert very well.
And then, like, work your way up to more top of
the funnel. Look at, overall, we call them
at HubSpot, like surround sound.
Look at, all of the places you could show up
outside of Google for that topic. Like, maybe
it's Reddit, maybe it's LinkedIn, what? Where
are there other relevant places you could appear?
Yeah, just coming back on the Google
one like you. I'm curious to even get--
how you use Google versus AI today, right? So
when I, when I think about my own habits, yeah,
I use AI exclusively, nearly. I still use
Google now and again, but it's unbelievable,
given like, two years ago, we were, we were
just using Google without even thinking about
anything else, right? Just Google, Google,
Google, Google, Google. Two years later
I hardly use Google for anything that you Google.
And so the reason I do that is because
it's able to give me clear and concise answers.
It's a research assistant.
It goes off, it reads all the blue links, comes
back and gives me clear and concise answers.
So for these companies that are going, Okay, well,
there's still some keywords. I want to create
some really great content, like, not just the
basic content, but the it's an in, but they're
all informational keywords, right? They're
informational queries. Do you believe that's
that's even going to be enough? Because the
isn't the challenge, not just that I need to
try to rank for these things, but like, No
one's even going to see my page. Because why
would I ever go to my website to get the answer
in the first place? Like, how do you how do you
talk to people about that part, which is, are
we even going to continue to get clicks to our
pages? If the AI is just going to give us a
better answer and a better experience?
I think we are in somewhat of a bubble in Tech
where we over estimate how many people have
already changed their search behaviors. Yeah,
is there a decrease 100% but if you look at the
data like I shared this a while back, so it's a
bit dated, but it's still, I believe, relevant.
When you look at the monthly web traffic to
sites like Google, YouTube, it is still a giant
it is still at an absolute giant level. And for
us to see a cultural shift where this amount
gets reduced to even the levels of Facebook, it
would have to be decades of decline, two years
of decline doesn't evaporate over 80 billion
monthly visits to Google, so that number to be
reduced is going to take a fundamental cultural
change where a significant amount of people who
are doing that search today literally die, and
that's not happening for like, 20 years
But that number could go down, and all the
people who are still doing it could not click.
There are multiple variables there.
Yeah, there are multiple variables.
The rate in which it will happen, though, I believe
is overestimated. I believe that we will see
the decline in the amount of people who are
clicking, I think we're going to see a decline
in the number of people who are using Google,
but I think the vast majority of the world will
still use Google as a central entry point,
because Chrome is their default browser, Google
is their default website that they pre visit.
Like in tech, we all use OpenAI, Claude
We have perplexity, we have all of these things to
answer our questions now, great.
But I still think we are very, very early. I was at an
event with a bunch of grocers, and I was
talking to this group of like C suite
executives, and I asked them, I was like,
folks, how many of you have heard of or used
Claude lately? How many of you have used Perplexity?
How many of you have even heard of
a tool like Palantir? There was only one hand
that went up amongst a room of like, 300 of the
top grocers in North America, and I was like,
we're very early. And that was the signal to me
that this is still early days. So my message to
folks who are even thinking strategically
around this stuff is, you still have a
competitive advantage if you're even listening
to us have this conversation because you can,
one, use AI, because most computer competitors
probably still aren't, even though it's always
talked about on X and on LinkedIn, most people
still aren't using it. So you can win that way.
And two, you can get ahead of the curve by
starting to distribute your content now into
these channels where OpenAI has a relationship
with Reddit, so seed your content there, so the
LLMs start to respond the way that you want to.
There's this concept of generative engine optimization
that I think is going to become,
in some ways, I don't want to say it's the new SEO
but it is a real reality. And with this,
there was a study that was conducted, and we
wrote about this on the foundation blog, where
it talks about the ideas that go into
optimizing for the LLM so essentially, these
these students, had done this analysis around
how you can actually influence the things that
the LLMs are saying back, whether it's AI overviews
Claude, GPT, all of those different things.
And it was clear, very clear, that if
you made content that was easy to understand,
authoritative with the tone, you use technical terms
that are related to your niche, it was fluent.
You cited sources, you had quotations
and stats that you would actually see an
increase in your ability to show up in the
response from an LLM. A lot of those ideas are
the same ideas as great SEO. And if you can
apply the best practices around great SEO to
your content, you should be able to influence
the LLMs, especially if you distribute your
content into the places in which the LLMs have
licensing deals to scrape their information.
That's the icing on the cake. And if you do
that now, you set yourself up. So as that
decline in search, the decline in click, start
to happen, you're now able to ensure that you
show up when someone asks those questions to
Google AI overviews, Claude, perplexity, etc.
Yeah, this is a great point. Actually, I do
think we're going to see it in B2B much
quicker than B2C, and I think we're going to
see it in certain B2B niches much quicker
than other B2B niches, and to where there's
like much more tech proficiency. Can I just go
back to one thing you mentioned? Because I
think our audience would really love a
breakdown of how you do this. So one of the
things you mentioned is definitely being a big
part of our growth, which is historical content
optimization, which you described, that you
have a large library and you have to continue
to update and refresh. Update and refresh that
library, and you mentioned you use AI to
augment that strategy. Can you go through like
what exactly you're using AI to do there?
Yeah for sure.
So the first thing that we do is we
look at trends around our traffic, and what
we're looking for are any pieces that have
started to show decline. Any pieces that at one
point were like, ranking and thriving, had a
lot of high quality backlinks. It's kind of
like this Simmons hierarchy of Maslow's needs
kind of thing where we were like, all right, if
these pieces have a lot of backlinks, they used
to generate a lot of referral traffic.
These are the pieces that we need to kind of fix up.
And then when we go through the process,
we're running like an analysis through a tool like
Phrase or something like that, which will scan
the text and identify whether or not it
compares to the content that's in the SERP.
So we'll do that cross analysis to see that SERP,
what content is already ranking and how is what
is in this content? Are these pieces 2000 words
on average, are they 4000 words on average?
What are some of the key points that they have?
We'll use "wayback" time machine to even look
back at like, what are the updates that these
pieces have made over time to get better and to
rank and then start to identify the gaps. Then
we go back to our tool, and ideally, what we're
doing is we're not just having a human go in
and optimize it, but we're having a human that
is augmented with AI to go through a series of
checklists that we create around how to improve
these pieces. So some of the things that we
always do is we always set the bar for high
editorial standards. So we ensure that the
content reads like a human. We use the AIDA
methodology as an intro or bottom line up
front, we use those as kind of like the
starting point over time in the early days that
might not have been embraced by the writer.
So we adjust it and we have them improve it. We
always strive to incorporate multimedia content
So if we see that in the SERP, there's
a lot of YouTube content showing up, we will go
one of two ways. Either we will have the
client, the partner, create that YouTube video,
or we'll develop that YouTube video with one of
our partners, or we'll leverage a tool like HeyGen
to essentially take the entire blog post,
turn it into a YouTube script, and then have an
avatar read that content as an individual
representing that brand and embed that at the top
because we see those as helping rank
higher. We embrace those double EEAT best practices
so we're essentially doing GEO on those pieces.
We're adding in stats, we're adding in quotes
we're trying to find edu links that we can incorporate. We're grabbing
screenshots from those journals in those
papers, or even using ChatGPT, Claude etc.
to help us find what pieces could be used
to support that optimization.
We're then ensuring that there's internal links from that
piece to newer pieces. One of those things that
happens, if a post was published in 2014 it's
linking to pieces from 2012 we need to update
those links so when they're linking to newer
assets, so we would go through and actually
update those links as well. And then finally,
we just make sure that that reads like a human
and that goes to an editor who would do that
piece and that side of it. Now, one of the
things that we also love to do when we're
optimizing these pieces is we try to make sure,
to ensure that they're adding value. We give
away something tactical and very tangible
utility driven in B2B. One of the best cheat
codes that we found recently to do that is to
leverage AI to say, hey, ChatGPT, I just
created this piece. Please give me four ideas
on a tangible template, guide, resource or
asset that I could give someone to make this
piece even better. They will then give you a
few of those ideas. You then can take that and
tell them to turn it into a spreadsheet. Chef's
kiss; wild that we can do that these days.
I love the time that we live in, because they
used to take me so long to create them. You get
that spreadsheet, you format it, you redesign
it, you pass it off, and it's game over.
You do that over and over again, and your
content wins, because you have the best piece
of content in the SERP. And then what I love,
though, guys like, at the end of the day,
everybody is hating on this race to the top of
the server. I love it because it is a
competition to see who can create the best
content, and that's what we all should have
been doing for the first place. Every marketer
lost track of the fact that this isn't just
like a game where you're creating content for
the sake of creating content. We're creating content
to add value to the lives of the people
on the other end of the intent in the search query
So if we all are trying to create the
best pieces of content possible, then it is
going to be a net positive for the culture, for
the industry, and for people that consume the content,
which is a win win for everybody. So
I'm excited for it, and I think the race is on,
and people should double down on it like it's
not enough to just create the light content anymore.
I want to just make sure we put in a master
class clip here to clip that part out.
And if you don't just carbon copy what Ross did
if you're listening to this, and if you don't
carbon copy that process. You're nuts.
We have seen a similar process has been
one of the core reasons we've grown,
But you have systemized that an intertwined AI
far better than we have done.
And some of the things that you've said
there are really, really smart
the way that you capture the SERP, the way that you actually
understand based upon that, what are the core
elements that are no longer--like, the SERPs update
That's what people don't realize, right?
So, like, you rank a post, and over time
this Google wants to provide different things
to the user, because the user wants different things
And you're basically scraping their
SERPs and saying, Well, these are the different
things the user wants. And then you're using AI
to be able to get some of that stuff and
provide it to an editor. So they just pick it
up and they say, okay, here are all the things
you need to incorporate. And then the way
you're using AI to create multi media versions
of that to like, you know, incorporate that
into post is super, super smart.
Do you have an app or something you've built for that?
We have just these large Google Sheets.
We're doing all of this somewhat in Google Sheets.
Have you built something different?
Or are you doing it in Google sheets as well?
Yeah. So the way that we've been approaching
it, we have a checklist, and the checklist goes
to the writer, the editor, around every
optimization, and it's assigned to every project
and they essentially just have to do
the checks and balances around this checklist,
around like make sure that there's charts and
graphs to support ideas. Optimize the lede
using AIDA, add that YouTube video, and then
we have a process around that for whether or
not they should use AI video or human video,
headlines aligned with the intent.
Embed social content for dynamic content,
getting that third party quote, making sure
that we're having definitions within each piece
linked to high domain authority sites, credible sources
All of these things are broken out
into it. There is one part of this that we
haven't talked about, which is the distribution
that happens after we did create a tool for
that part of the engine. So after you do these
optimizations, a lot of marketers call it quits
and say, That's it. We press Publish. We're
done. Successful. Let's pop the bubbly.
We've just created a great piece. But as we talked
about earlier, around the shift to needing a
diverse source of traffic, we believe that
that's when the job actually begins. You press publish,
now it's time to distribute that content.
So we've been working on a tool called
distribution.ai where we've been actually like
developing this product around: you ingest your
blog posts, and from that becomes a lot of
multimedia assets that go into Reddit,
multimedia assets that go out onto X, onto
LinkedIn, that go into different channels, and
that's been ridiculously successful for us in
supporting our partners. Eventually, we'll be
rolling it out completely to the vast majority
of the world, etc, but today, it's something
that we use internally to really get more value
out of our pieces, where you press publish and
you need to turn that same piece into a
LinkedIn article. We make it easy to do that.
Turn that same piece into a carousel that lives
on LinkedIn. Make it easy to do that.
Turn that same piece into that video of myself talking
about this topic. We're going to do that.
All of those things are going to be
as a part of this product.
Yeah, we have a product in HubSpot called Content Remix
that does--I love Content Remix!--that does a lot of that
It's so good! It's a great product.
But I think what's interesting about what you're
saying is first, first of all, distribution.ai.
I've never been more pissed that didn't buy a domain name.
I was just actually gonna ping you, Kipp
I knew you were gonna slack me, but like,
should've bought this domain name that I really wish I owned
Someday they're gonna be like,
"Kipp, why did you buy Ross's tool?"
I just wanted the domain name, so bought the whole company.
"Just need the domain"
So good. It's so good. Probably Dharmesh didn't get that one.
I know, Darmesh has all the sick domain names.
Does he? I love it. Yeah, he totally does.
But I think the point you're also making is,
that content repurposing, that distribution--
it's far broader than most people think.
And it's also like, very "of the moment", right?
Like, of this moment, right now, you would
for sure, have it spit out a short form
video script for LinkedIn, right?
But maybe a year, two years from now,
that wouldn't be in there, right?
So it's like a very dynamic playbook.
Just like the SEO side
you also have the dynamic nature
of the distribution side
AI is causing that change to happen.
Well, you think of Quora, right? If I was
to go back to eight years ago, Quora was it.
Get into Quora, answer some high quality questions
and you're gonna see some great
referral traffic coming from that site.
Over time, things change, and you have to
change your distribution strategy with it,
right? But if you were early and making your
bets on Reddit? Ching Ching, well done! You
made the right call investing in that three
four years ago, because now it's those posts
from three to four years ago that are ranking
in the SERP today. So I think when you think of
AI though, like we are all going through one of
the most transformational times as marketers,
it's influencing all of us.
It's going to continue to influence all of us, and we all
just need to embrace the technologies
as we move ahead
What tools, Ross, AI tools, do you think--
I think this is a good place to end on
What AI tools do you think our
listeners should be using in their companies?
either for their personal content,
or for their company?
Like, what ones are you seeing real value in?
Yeah, I'll be a good company boy;
first of all, I do love Content Remix (by HubSpot)
I love HubSpot's tools. The stuff
that you folks have rolled out has been great.
I'll start with that. We didn't pay him to say that, thank you.
They didn't pay me guys.
the AI writer tool is pretty good. I love it.
I'm a big fan. But if we want to get a little
bit scrappy with it, I'd say some of the tools
that I'm a fan of right now would include
A lot of folks have heard of Descript.
I'm a big fan of Descript. I'm a big fan of Riverside.
ElevenLabs is fascinating to me.
It was the first one that I used
Probably two years ago now to like,
create a synthetic version of my own voice.
And even some of my podcast episodes, like
the greats, include AI versions of my voice,
and people love them, and they don't know that
all the time, that it's not me, and it's fascinating.
So ElevenLabs is cool. One of my
personal use cases for ElevenLabs that I've found
very valuable is using it to read things. So ElevenLabs
gives you the ability to find a blog post,
submit the link, and it will read it back to
you, kind of in any voice you want.
I've been using it to read it back in my own voice, which
is weird, but it's gonna happen. It's cool.
It absorbs a lot better for some reason. So I've
been in like a weird way to learn and study
I'll also have a conversation with
ChatGPT is something that I'm
trying to work through, and then I'll have the
AI, like, read it back to me in my voice, and
it's also been valuable. I'm a big fan of
leveraging tools like--
good old fashioned ones, figma is great,
their AI tools have been awesome. Notion, I'm a
big fan of what they've been doing. I think,
like, Canva has picked up a lot with the work
that they've been done doing with AI.
Yeah they have some great AI functionality, very cool.
to like automate the creation of images.
One thing that I did recently, I went to ChatGPT,
and I uploaded, 20 of my tweets, and
I was like, write another 20. And then I asked
it to create a spreadsheet, and it gave me a spreadsheet
and I was able to connect that to Canva.
I was able to use MidJourney to create
images, like hundreds of images that were all
different. And I was able to get a connection
between those two via Zapier
from there, it essentially was uploading a
bunch of these different images on my behalf.
So I think combining a lot of these tools is
also very powerful today, and they give you a
ton of opportunity. Runway is also interesting,
where you're able to, take a graphic and
make it move. It's gotten so much better. I was
in Italy, Kipp and I were talking about Italy a
little while ago, but I found runway while I
was in Italy, and I took a photo of the beach,
and there was somebody on the beach walking and
something like that. So I uploaded this photo,
and then their hands started to go through
them, and, like, they turned into a monster.
And I was like, Oh, this is horrible. This is
brutal. I'm never using this again, but you
fast forward, and I started to use it again and
it's fixed a lot of the problems. So much better.
And the rate in which things are getting
fixed is the coolest part about all of this.
Like you're seeing the improvements
across all of these tools so much more quickly.
HeyGen as well. Like we were talking about how
early days you put on HeyGen, and it's like,
oh, this tool doesn't work. One example of HeyGen
in the capabilities is like I was literally
running an experiment where I recorded a video
of myself talking into the camera, and I talked
to the camera just like I normally would, and
then I created an HeyGen avatar to say the
same thing, and I put it up on social and I was
asking people like, which one is the real Ross?
My assistant got it wrong. My colleagues got it
wrong. My own mom got it wrong, like, and my
mom went into deep denial. She went into deep
denial. She was like, I know my son. There's no
way I know my son. I know who you I was like,
No, Mom, that ain't me. So now we have a secret
code, and I'm like, Mom, if somebody calls you
with my voice, hang up and call me back, and
there's a secret code, because you're
gonna need stuff. Yeah, right.
Yeah, I'm gonna try to play around with HeyGen
because my dream is, like to join
meetings that I don't really need to be in and
send my avatar and like, the avatar just be
there going "Yep, yep" It's true.
I'm in meetings where sometimes I go, "I think that person is not real"
Here it is. It's like, the mannerisms, like
this one here is, like, the real me. This was
the AI, me. And look at this--"video 2 is AI"
"Two is definitely AI" No folks! "Me and the kids think"--
Video 1 is looking good. They got a lot of the
jerkiness out of the ball.
That was the good thing. Yeah!
They didn't see that glitch. But, like, there
was a moment where it was obvious, but nobody picked it up
It used to be like, that moment was like every other frame
But now it might be one second out of 30 seconds
Which is, is a massive
change to your point. It is.
You didn't mention any of the the core tools. I'm
curious, have you like, I'm obviously a pretty
large, Claude fan person, and so they released, I
don't, did you see their release?
Today is November 27 we're probably gonna do a full
video on this. But the writing style release?
It's so good. It's I just want to say
that I think they stole this from me.
Kieran's ego can't take it. I did a whole
video series on, the things that
I figured out with Claude, and the big
thing I had figured out was
How to create writing styles and pair that with post
templates. And so you could say, well, here's
the different posts that do well on a platform, and then
here's different writing styles, and you combine those things.
And we have Simon coming on, who leads Claude Product next week
So I'm gonna ask him, but that's what
you can do now, right? You can just
create any writing style, either your own
content, anyone else's content, pick the
writing style, and then you can actually go in
and custom say, who are the audience, and all
of this stuff. And I'm curious, do you think the writing tools like that are
are valuable? Do you use them? Are you excited
by these kind of features?
I'm ridiculously excited by them. I think that
they are a game changer, and every writer who
doesn't use them is essentially just like
allowing those who do use them to have a
competitive advantage. I am a massive believer that
these tools should be viewed as an augmentation
of human skills. And if you are a great writer,
using AI makes you a greater writer, faster.
If you are a bad writer, though, I will
tell you, AI can't save you. Exactly, this is point
If you're bad, AI will not save you.
Get back to school, go take the course,
learn the fundamentals of copywriting,
the fundamentals still matter
but it's kind of like any other tool,
like everybody gets this whole thing twisted.
If you give me a hammer, I can do some things,
but if you give somebody who has literally used
a hammer 1 million times, they are
probably going to be better than me.
So the tool can give everyone value, but the value is
really connected to the talents behind it.
And if you can empower talented people to use these
tools, they can do ridiculously valuable things
And if you don't believe that, just
look at YouTube, there are literally
YouTube channels that are AI generated content
that have over 500,000 subscribers, there are
AI TikTok accounts that have hundreds of 1000s
of subscribers. It is no longer an opinion that
can be like held responsibly, that AI is not
good for people to use if they want to get more
done and be creative and be more successful.
It's impossible to say that. It's literally
wild that people still have that debate. It
needs to be used all of the tools, long story
answer to a very short question again, but yes,
I'm a big fan. I think Claude is going to go far
I think, like all the writing tools are
beneficial, but I think we still need to
remember that the people using them need to be
really good at what they do.
AI creates immense amount of leverage for
people with real domain expertise.
And creates an a huge amount of problems for people
who are lazy and bad, because AI do their job better.
And that's how I see it is like, there's never been a better
time to invest in domain expertise, because AI
can actually help you to do more, right, and be
more, way more productive.
I think that's a great ending message for the listeners.
This was an awesome show. Ross, I think this, I'm
gonna go down and say this is one of our best
shows of 2025 because we got deep in the
details of everything that's changing. And I
think this is probably one that, if you watched
it, you need to go back and watch it a couple
times to really understand and get everything
out of it. And Ross, thank you so much for
coming on the pod again. We look forward to
having you on again soon. Thank you. Thank you.
We'll see everybody next time on Marketing Against the Grain